---
title: "Incident Identification"
description: "Monitoring is key to detecting signs of incidents"
tags: [Security, Cybersecurity, Incident Response]
sidebar_position: 4
last_update:
  date: 1/30/2024
---


## Overview

The incident response process involves continuous monitoring after a plan is established and a team is prepared.

- Monitoring is key to detecting signs of incidents.
- This ensures the organization is always vigilant for ongoing or past events.

## Incident Identification

The ability to identify an incident relies on robust security infrastructure.

- **Security monitoring** helps detect potential incidents.
- **Data collection, analysis, and retention** are essential for timely identification.

## Information Sources

Various tools and systems provide critical data for identifying security incidents.

- Intrusion detection and prevention systems
- Firewalls
- Authentication systems
- System integrity monitors
- Vulnerability scanners
- System event logs
- NetFlow connection records
- Anti-malware packages

## SIEM

Security Incident and Event Management (SIEM) aids in handling the large amount of data generated by security systems.

- **SIEM systems** act as centralized repositories for log data.
- They assist in **correlating and analyzing** massive logs.
- **Detection** is enhanced by SIEM’s rule-based and algorithmic approaches.

For more information, please see [SIEM.](/docs/005-Cybersecurity/008-Security-Operations/032-SIEM.md)

## External Sources

Not all incidents are detected internally; some come from external reports.

- External reports may come from **employees**, **customers**, or **other organizations**.
- Examples include personal information being exposed or systems acting maliciously.

## First Responder Responsibilities

The team member who first detects an incident has special responsibilities to minimize damage.

- Act quickly to contain damage.
- Isolate compromised systems from network to prevent further harm.
- Ensure the system is still running to preserve evidence while limiting communication with attackers.

## Containment Strategy

Containing the damage from a security incident is the highest priority.

- Quarantine systems by disconnecting them from the network.
- Focus on isolation to prevent the incident from spreading.

