---
title: "Spoofing Attacks"
tags: [Cybersecurity]
sidebar_position: 5
last_update:
  date: 1/30/2024
---



## Overview 

Cybercriminals uses spoofing attacks to impersonate a familiar or trusted source to interact with targets, aiming to steal information, extort money, or install malicious software on their devices.

Example of spoofing attacks:

- Email Spoofing
- Caller ID Spoofing
- Website/Domain Spoofing
- IP Spoofing
- ARP Spoofing
- GPS Spoofing
- Facial Spoofing
- Man-in-the-middle attack 

**Mitigations:**

- **Email Security**: Use SPF, DKIM, and DMARC.
- **User Training**: Educate on recognizing suspicious communications.
- **Secure Authentication**: Use multifactor authentication.
- **Access Controls**: Limit sensitive system access.
- **Secure Routing**: Implement SBGP or similar protocols.
- **Network Access Control (NAC)**: Restrict unauthorized devices.
- **IDS/IPS**: Detect spoofing patterns.

<small>Reference: https://www.crowdstrike.com/cybersecurity-101/spoofing-attacks/</small>

## IP Address Spoofing

Impersonating a trusted IP address to gain unauthorized access. 

**Mitigations:**

- **Packet Filtering**: Block spoofed IP addresses.
- **Secure Routing**: Use SBGP to validate routing.
- **Network Access Control (NAC)**: Restrict unauthorized devices from network access.
- **IDS/IPS**: Monitor for spoofing patterns.


## Session Hijacking 

### Session Management

Session management enables web applications to identify users consistently.

- Allows for unique identification of users across requests.
- Maintains the state of user data throughout interactions.
- Ensures that data generated by the user is assigned solely to that user.
- Information can be stored in databases or cookies.

### Cookies

Cookies are important for managing state in web applications, as HTTP is a stateless protocol.

- HTTP doesn’t store client info, so cookies are used.
- Cookies store information about users for future requests.
- Every request from the client includes the stored cookie.
- Encrypting cookies helps protect session data.
- For more information, please see [Secure Cookies.](/docs/021-Software-Engineering/100-Software-Security/010-Application-Security.md#secure-cookies)

**Types of Cookies:**

- **Session Cookies**

  - Non-persistent, only stored in the browser.
  - When browser is closed, cookies are deleted.

- **Persistent Cookies**

  - Stay around even after the browser is closed.
  - Stored in the browser cache until they're deleted by the user.
  - Delete when user "Clear cookies", or when they pass the defined expiration date.

### Session Hijacking

Session hijacking is a spoofing attack where the host is disconnected and replaced by the attacker.

- Occurs through theft or modification of cookies.
- Can be performed when user is currently logged in to a web session.

### Session Prediction

In session prediction, an attacker attempts to predict session token to hijack the session.

- If token is predictable, they can be guessed.
- Attackers can take over the session.

### Cookie Poisoning

Cookie poisoning involves modifying the contents of the cookies to be sent to a client's browser.

- Modified cookie can be used to exploit vulnerabilities.

## Replay Attack

Attacker intercepts and retransmits a valid data transmission to trick the receiver into unauthorized actions, often impersonating one of the legitimate parties in the communication.

- Interception and retransmission of valid data packets.
- Unauthorized access, data manipulation, session hijacking.

**Mitigations:**

- Time-stamped tokens or nonces, ensures each transaction is unique and only valid for a short period.
- Use TLS/SSL to encrypt data and make interception more difficult.
- Mutual authentication techniques, validate each other's identities.
- Maintain a session or message log to track and verify unique transactions.
- Replay detection mechanisms to identify and block replayed messages.
- Use WPA3 to avoid replay attacks.

**Difference with Session Hijacking:**

- Replay Attacks - attacker intercepts data, decides whether to retransmit it later.
- Session Hijacking - attacker alters data transmission in real-time.
