docs/017-Version-Control-and-CICD/002-CICD/003-Jenkins-Labs/030-Single-Server-Deployment.md, before:

---
title: "Single Server Deployment"
description: "Deploying an App on a Single Server"
tags: [CICD, Continuous Integration, Continuous Delivery, Continuous Deployment, Jenkins]
sidebar_position: 30
last_update:
  date: 7/7/2022
---




## Lab Environment

In this lab, we have the following Linux machines, and we will use a local computer (laptop) to connect to each of them. The code is stored in a remote GitHub repository, which will be clone locally for development and testing.

- jenkinsmaster
- prodserver

You can choose to set up a virtual machine on your computer or create instances in the cloud. In this case, EC2 instances are used.

<div class='img-center'>

![](/img/docs/jenkins-lab-diagram-jenkinsmaster-prodserver.png)

</div>


## Setting Up Jenkins

If you have your Jenkins server already setup, you can skip this section. There's an option to manually install Jenkins on a Linux machine or you can also use Ansible playbooks to perform the entire installation of Jenkins on this machine.

To setup Jenkins:

- [Install Jenkins on Linux](/docs/017-Version-Control-and-CICD/002-CICD/003-Jenkins-Labs/004-Installing-Jenkins.md)
- [Setting up Ansible and Jenkins.](/docs/017-Version-Control-and-CICD/002-CICD/003-Jenkins-Labs/005-Setup-Ansible-and-Jenkins.md)

## Pre-requisites 

Pre-requisites: 

- A Github account.
- Install the following on the the servers:

    - Python

        ```bash
        ## These commands are for Ubuntu Linux
        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get install python3.6 
        ```

    - Python Virtual Environment 

        ```bash
        sudo apt install -y python3.12-venv 
        ```

    - Pip

        ```bash
        sudo apt install -y python3-pip
        ```


## Pre-Deployment Steps 

Perform the following in the production server:

1. Create a directory for the application and go to the project directory.

    ```bash
    mkdir /opt/app 
    cd /opt/app 
    ```

2. Create a python virtual environment. This is to ensure the application will not interfere with other applications running inside the produserver.

    ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    ls -la /opt/app/venv    ## Verify
    ```

3. Depending on the machine you're using, you need configure firewall to allow port 500. If you're using a virtual machine in the cloud, you need to allow the port in the security group.


4. Create a systemd unit file. This will be used to start and stop the service. If you're using a containerized Jenkins or if `systemctl` is not working, proceed to the [Without Systemd](#without-systemd) section.

    ```bash
    vi /etc/systemd/system/flaskapp.service
    ```
    ```bash
    [Unit]
    Description=flask app
    After-network.target
    # Service will only start after network is initialized.

    [Service]
    User=root
    Group=root
    WorkingDirectory=/opt/app/
    Environment-"PATH=/opt/app/venv/bin"
    Execstart=/opt/app/venv/bin/python3 /opt/app/app.py


    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target
    ```

5. Reload the systemd configuration manager. Then enable service on start on boot and start service. At this point, it will still fail because the application is not yet copied to the directory.

    ```bash
    sudo systemctl daemon-reload
    susdo systemctl enable flaskapp.service  
    sudo systemctl status flaskapp.service  
    ```


## Without Systemd 

If you're in an environment without systemd (like many Docker containers), many of the commands will not work because because there’s no systemd process managing services. As an alternative, you can run the following:

1. Create the Init script. This will be similar to the Systemd unit file.

    ```bash
    sudo nano /etc/init.d/flaskapp
    ```

    ```bash
    #!/bin/bash
    # /etc/init.d/flaskapp
    # Init script for managing Flask app

    ### BEGIN INIT INFO
    # Provides:          flaskapp
    # Required-Start:    $network
    # Required-Stop:     $network
    # Default-Start:     2 3 4 5
    # Default-Stop:      0 1 6
    # Short-Description: Start flask app at boot
    # Description:       Enable service for Flask app
    ### END INIT INFO

    APP_PATH="/opt/app"
    APP_USER="root"
    APP_GROUP="root"
    VENV_PATH="/opt/app/venv/bin"
    PYTHON_EXEC="$VENV_PATH/python3"
    APP_SCRIPT="$APP_PATH/app.py"

    start() {
        echo "Starting flaskapp..."
        su -c "cd $APP_PATH && PATH=$VENV_PATH:$PATH $PYTHON_EXEC $APP_SCRIPT &" $APP_USER
    }

    stop() {
        echo "Stopping flaskapp..."
        pkill -f "$PYTHON_EXEC $APP_SCRIPT"
    }

    status() {
        if pgrep -f "$PYTHON_EXEC $APP_SCRIPT" > /dev/null; then
            echo "flaskapp is running."
        else
            echo "flaskapp is not running."
        fi
    }

    case "$1" in
    start)
        start
        ;;
    stop)
        stop
        ;;
    restart)
        stop
        start
        ;;
    status)
        status
        ;;
    *)
        echo "Usage: /etc/init.d/flaskapp {start|stop|restart|status}"
        exit 1
        ;;
    esac

    exit 0
    ```

2. After saving the script, make it executable:

    ```bash
    sudo chmod +x /etc/init.d/flaskapp 
    ```

3. Then, manage it with:.

    ```bash
    sudo service flaskapp start
    sudo service flaskapp stop
    sudo service flaskapp restart
    sudo service flaskapp status
    ```


## Fork the Repository 

The sample project can be found here: 

```bash
https://github.com/joseeden/jenkins-project 
```


:::info[Use git credentials when cloning]

In August 2021, Github removed support for using your account password from the cli.
You can either use [Personal Access Tokens (PAT)](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens) or [SSH keys.](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh)

:::

After you sign in to Github, fork the repo and confirm the details.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-fork-repository.png)

Clone it to your local computer and change the Jenkinsfile. 


## Create the Jenkinsfile 

Create the Jenkinsfile inside the project directory. Note that if you're not using `systemd`, change the `systemd` command to `sudo service flaskapp restart'. **DO NOT** push yet.

    ```bash
    pipeline {
        agent any

        environment {
            SERVER_IP = credentials('prod-server-ip')
        }
        stages {
            stage('Setup') {
                steps {
                    sh "pip install -r requirements.txt"
                }
            }
            stage('Test') {
                steps {
                    sh "pytest"
                }
            }

            stage('Package code') {
                steps {
                    sh "zip -r myapp.zip ./* -x '*.git*'"
                    sh "ls -lart"
                }
            }

            stage('Deploy to Prod') {
                steps {
                    withCredentials([sshUserPrivateKey(credentialsId: 'ssh-key', keyFileVariable: 'MY_SSH_KEY', usernameVariable: 'username')]) {
                        sh '''
                        scp -i $MY_SSH_KEY -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no myapp.zip  ${username}@${SERVER_IP}:/opt/
                        ssh -i $MY_SSH_KEY -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no ${username}@${SERVER_IP} << EOF
                            unzip -o /opt/myapp.zip -d /opt/app/
                            source app/venv/bin/activate
                            cd /opt/app/
                            pip install -r requirements.txt
                            sudo systemctl restart flaskapp.service
                        EOF
                        '''
                    }
                }
            }
        
            
        
            
        }
    } 
    ```

## Configuration Steps

The pipeline steps:

1. Checkout code 
2. Install dependencies
3. Test code 
4. Package code
5. Copy code to server
6. Install dependencies on the server
7. Restart flask app

Note that the Jenkins server will need SSH access to the production server. 

## Setup Credentials

Configure the following as credentials that will be pulled by the Jenkinsfile.

- ssh-key 
- prod-server-ip 

On the Jenkins dashboard, go to:

```
Manage Jenkins > Credentials > global > Add credentials
```

Configure the following details. For the **Secret** field, enter the public IP address of the production server.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-configure-credentials-on-jenkins.png)

Add a second credentials with the following details.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-configure-credentials-on-jenkins-ssh-key.png)

For the SSH key, generate a new SSH key in the production server and copy the contents of the private key in the **Key** field. 

```bash
sudo su
ssh-keygen -t rsa
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa 
```


## Setup the Pipeline

Back on the Jenkins dashboard, click New Item and enter "single-server-pipeline" for the Item name. Select **Pipeline** and click **OK**.

<div class='img-center'>

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-pipeline.png) 

</div>


Check the box for the following and then click Save.

```
Build Triggers > Github hook trigger for GITScm polling
```

<div class='img-center'>

![](/img/docs/1101-jenkins-single-server-deployment-github-hook-trigger-gitscm-polling.png)

</div>


```
Pipeline > Pipeline script from SCM > SCM > Git > Repository URL > Enter URL
Set the branch to main
Set the ScriptPath > Jenkinsfile
```

<div class='img-center'>

![](/img/docs/1101-jenkins-single-server-deployment-configure-pipeline-triggers-etc.png)

<!-- ![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-configure-pipeline-triggers-etc.png) -->

</div>




## Commit and Push 

Back in your local machine, commit and push the changes you did (if any).s

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Added changes" 
git push 
```

Go to the your job in the Jenkins dashboard. You should now see a job getting triggered.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-triggeringgg.png)


## Test the App 

Copy the server IP and open it a web browser. You should be able to access the sample application.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-working-apppp.png)

## Verify Triggers 

Go back to the project directory in your local machine and modify the templates/index.html file.  Add a `V2` in the line:

```bash
<title>Todo App: V2</title> 
```

Commit and push.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Updated to v2" 
git push 
```

Back in the pipeline, a second build should be triggered.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-second-triggere.png)

Open the web browser and refresh. It should now show version 2.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-app-version-2.png)

Commit message:

Updated notes, also change pipeline branch to main from master

docs/017-Version-Control-and-CICD/002-CICD/003-Jenkins-Labs/030-Single-Server-Deployment.md, after:

---
title: "Single Server Deployment"
description: "Deploying an App on a Single Server"
tags: [CICD, Continuous Integration, Continuous Delivery, Continuous Deployment, Jenkins]
sidebar_position: 30
last_update:
  date: 7/7/2022
---




## Lab Environment

In this lab, we have the following Linux machines, and we will use a local computer (laptop) to connect to each of them. The code is stored in a remote GitHub repository, which will be clone locally for development and testing.

- jenkinsmaster
- prodserver

You can choose to set up a virtual machine on your computer or create instances in the cloud. In this case, EC2 instances are used.

<div class='img-center'>

![](/img/docs/jenkins-lab-diagram-jenkinsmaster-prodserver.png)

</div>


## Setting Up Jenkins

If you have your Jenkins server already setup, you can skip this section. There's an option to manually install Jenkins on a Linux machine or you can also use Ansible playbooks to perform the entire installation of Jenkins on this machine.

To setup Jenkins:

- [Install Jenkins on Linux](/docs/017-Version-Control-and-CICD/002-CICD/003-Jenkins-Labs/004-Installing-Jenkins.md)
- [Setting up Ansible and Jenkins.](/docs/017-Version-Control-and-CICD/002-CICD/003-Jenkins-Labs/005-Setup-Ansible-and-Jenkins.md)

## Pre-requisites 

Pre-requisites: 

- A Github account.
- Install the following on the the servers:

    - Python

        ```bash
        ## These commands are for Ubuntu Linux
        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get install python3.6 
        ```

    - Python Virtual Environment 

        ```bash
        sudo apt install -y python3.12-venv 
        ```

    - Pip

        ```bash
        sudo apt install -y python3-pip
        ```


## Pre-Deployment Steps 

Perform the following in the production server:

1. Create a directory for the application and go to the project directory.

    ```bash
    mkdir /opt/app 
    cd /opt/app 
    ```

2. Create a python virtual environment. This is to ensure the application will not interfere with other applications running inside the produserver.

    ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    ls -la /opt/app/venv    ## Verify
    ```

3. Depending on the machine you're using, you need configure firewall to allow port 500. If you're using a virtual machine in the cloud, you need to allow the port in the security group.


4. Create a systemd unit file. This will be used to start and stop the service. If you're using a containerized Jenkins or if `systemctl` is not working, proceed to the [Without Systemd](#without-systemd) section.

    ```bash
    vi /etc/systemd/system/flaskapp.service
    ```
    ```bash
    [Unit]
    Description=flask app
    After-network.target
    # Service will only start after network is initialized.

    [Service]
    User=root
    Group=root
    WorkingDirectory=/opt/app/
    Environment-"PATH=/opt/app/venv/bin"
    Execstart=/opt/app/venv/bin/python3 /opt/app/app.py


    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target
    ```

5. Reload the systemd configuration manager. Then enable service on start on boot and start service. At this point, it will still fail because the application is not yet copied to the directory.

    ```bash
    sudo systemctl daemon-reload
    susdo systemctl enable flaskapp.service  
    sudo systemctl status flaskapp.service  
    ```


## Without Systemd 

If you're in an environment without systemd (like many Docker containers), many of the commands will not work because because there’s no systemd process managing services. As an alternative, you can run the following:

1. Create the Init script. This will be similar to the Systemd unit file.

    ```bash
    sudo nano /etc/init.d/flaskapp
    ```

    ```bash
    #!/bin/bash
    # /etc/init.d/flaskapp
    # Init script for managing Flask app

    ### BEGIN INIT INFO
    # Provides:          flaskapp
    # Required-Start:    $network
    # Required-Stop:     $network
    # Default-Start:     2 3 4 5
    # Default-Stop:      0 1 6
    # Short-Description: Start flask app at boot
    # Description:       Enable service for Flask app
    ### END INIT INFO

    APP_PATH="/opt/app"
    APP_USER="root"
    APP_GROUP="root"
    VENV_PATH="/opt/app/venv/bin"
    PYTHON_EXEC="$VENV_PATH/python3"
    APP_SCRIPT="$APP_PATH/app.py"

    start() {
        echo "Starting flaskapp..."
        su -c "cd $APP_PATH && PATH=$VENV_PATH:$PATH $PYTHON_EXEC $APP_SCRIPT &" $APP_USER
    }

    stop() {
        echo "Stopping flaskapp..."
        pkill -f "$PYTHON_EXEC $APP_SCRIPT"
    }

    status() {
        if pgrep -f "$PYTHON_EXEC $APP_SCRIPT" > /dev/null; then
            echo "flaskapp is running."
        else
            echo "flaskapp is not running."
        fi
    }

    case "$1" in
    start)
        start
        ;;
    stop)
        stop
        ;;
    restart)
        stop
        start
        ;;
    status)
        status
        ;;
    *)
        echo "Usage: /etc/init.d/flaskapp {start|stop|restart|status}"
        exit 1
        ;;
    esac

    exit 0
    ```

2. After saving the script, make it executable:

    ```bash
    sudo chmod +x /etc/init.d/flaskapp 
    ```

3. Then, manage it with:.

    ```bash
    sudo service flaskapp start
    sudo service flaskapp stop
    sudo service flaskapp restart
    sudo service flaskapp status
    ```


## Fork the Repository 

The sample project can be found here: 

```bash
https://github.com/joseeden/jenkins-project 
```


:::info[Use git credentials when cloning]

In August 2021, Github removed support for using your account password from the cli.
You can either use [Personal Access Tokens (PAT)](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens) or [SSH keys.](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh)

:::

After you sign in to Github, fork the repo and confirm the details.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-fork-repository.png)

Clone it to your local computer and change the Jenkinsfile. 


## Create the Jenkinsfile 

Create the Jenkinsfile inside the project directory. Note that if you're not using `systemd`, change the `systemd` command to `sudo service flaskapp restart'. **DO NOT** push yet.

    ```bash
    pipeline {
        agent any

        environment {
            SERVER_IP = credentials('prod-server-ip')
        }
        stages {
            stage('Setup') {
                steps {
                    sh "pip install -r requirements.txt"
                }
            }
            stage('Test') {
                steps {
                    sh "pytest"
                }
            }

            stage('Package code') {
                steps {
                    sh "zip -r myapp.zip ./* -x '*.git*'"
                    sh "ls -lart"
                }
            }

            stage('Deploy to Prod') {
                steps {
                    withCredentials([sshUserPrivateKey(credentialsId: 'ssh-key', keyFileVariable: 'MY_SSH_KEY', usernameVariable: 'username')]) {
                        sh '''
                        scp -i $MY_SSH_KEY -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no myapp.zip  ${username}@${SERVER_IP}:/opt/
                        ssh -i $MY_SSH_KEY -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no ${username}@${SERVER_IP} << EOF
                            unzip -o /opt/myapp.zip -d /opt/app/
                            source app/venv/bin/activate
                            cd /opt/app/
                            pip install -r requirements.txt
                            sudo systemctl restart flaskapp.service
                        EOF
                        '''
                    }
                }
            }
        
            
        
            
        }
    } 
    ```

## Configuration Steps

The pipeline steps:

1. Checkout code 
2. Install dependencies
3. Test code 
4. Package code
5. Copy code to server
6. Install dependencies on the server
7. Restart flask app

Note that the Jenkins server will need SSH access to the production server. 

## Setup Credentials

Configure the following as credentials that will be pulled by the Jenkinsfile.

- ssh-key 
- prod-server-ip 

On the Jenkins dashboard, go to:

```
Manage Jenkins > Credentials > global > Add credentials
```

Configure the following details. For the **Secret** field, enter the public IP address of the production server.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-configure-credentials-on-jenkins.png)

Add a second credentials with the following details.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-configure-credentials-on-jenkins-ssh-key.png)

For the SSH key, generate a new SSH key in the production server and copy the contents of the private key in the **Key** field. 

```bash
sudo su
ssh-keygen -t rsa
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa 
```


## Setup the Pipeline

Back on the Jenkins dashboard, click New Item and enter "single-server-pipeline" for the Item name. Select **Pipeline** and click **OK**.

<div class='img-center'>

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-pipeline.png) 

</div>


Check the box for the following and then click Save.

```
Build Triggers > Github hook trigger for GITScm polling
```

<div class='img-center'>

![](/img/docs/1101-jenkins-single-server-deployment-github-hook-trigger-gitscm-polling.png)

</div>


Next, configure the pipeline section. Note the branch name. The common name is **main** but your branch could be using **master**. You can also specify a different branch name here.


```
Pipeline > Pipeline script from SCM > SCM > Git > Repository URL > Enter URL
Set the branch to main
Set the ScriptPath > Jenkinsfile
```

<div class='img-center'>

![](/img/docs/1101-jenkins-single-server-deployment-configure-pipeline-triggers-using-main.png)

<!-- ![](/img/docs/1101-jenkins-single-server-deployment-configure-pipeline-triggers-etc.png) -->

<!-- ![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-configure-pipeline-triggers-etc.png) -->

</div>




## Commit and Push 

Back in your local machine, commit and push the changes you did (if any).s

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Added changes" 
git push 
```

Go to the your job in the Jenkins dashboard. You should now see a job getting triggered.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-triggeringgg.png)


## Test the App 

Copy the server IP and open it a web browser. You should be able to access the sample application.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-working-apppp.png)

## Verify Triggers 

Go back to the project directory in your local machine and modify the templates/index.html file.  Add a `V2` in the line:

```bash
<title>Todo App: V2</title> 
```

Commit and push.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Updated to v2" 
git push 
```

Back in the pipeline, a second build should be triggered.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-second-triggere.png)

Open the web browser and refresh. It should now show version 2.

![](/img/docs/1029-jenkins-single-server-deployment-app-version-2.png)
