---
title: "NIST 800-34 Revisions 1"
description: "NIST Definitions from 800-34 Revisions 1"
tags: [Security, Cybersecurity, Incident Response]
sidebar_position: 0
last_update:
  date: 1/30/2024
---

## Incident Response Planning

Incident Response Planning prepares organizations to effectively manage and respond to cybersecurity incidents.

- Develop a clear set of procedures for identifying and responding to incidents.
- Define roles and responsibilities for incident response teams.
- Ensure communication protocols are in place for internal and external stakeholders.
- Normally focuses on detection, response, and recovery to a cyber attack. 

For more information, please see [Incident Response Plan.](/docs/007-Cybersecurity/010-Incident-Response/002-Incident-Response-Plan.md)


## Business Contingency Planning

Business Contingency Planning normally applies to **information systems** and provide steps needed to recover the operation of all or part of the designated information systems at an existing or new location in an emergency.

- Identify critical business functions that must be maintained during a crisis.
- Establish alternative procedures and resources to support operations.
- Conduct regular reviews and updates to the contingency plan.

It is important to note that **contingency planning** is tactical and immediate, whereas **continuity planning** emphasizes long-term resilience and comprehensive recovery, with contingency plans as part of the broader continuity framework. 


## Business Continuity Planning

Business Continuity Planning focuses on maintaining essential functions during and after a disaster.

- Assess risks to determine potential threats and vulnerabilities.
- Develop strategies to minimize disruptions and ensure recovery.
- Involve all stakeholders in the planning process to ensure buy-in.

For more information, please see [Business Continuity Plan.](/docs/007-Cybersecurity/010-Incident-Response/011-Business-Continuity-Plan.md)


## Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP)

A Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) outlines how an organization will continue its essential functions during a wide range of emergencies.

- Develop plans for resource allocation and personnel deployment.
- Ensure regular training and exercises to test the effectiveness of the plan.
- Critical IT operations are transferred to an alternate site for up to 30 days.

## Senior Management Commitment

Senior management commitment is vital for effective Business Contingency Planning in cybersecurity. Contingency planning will fail without clear and formal commitment of the C-Level Management executives.

- Provides necessary resources and support for contingency plans.
- Drives prioritization of risk assessments and incident response strategies.
- Ensures regular review and updates of contingency plans.
- Fosters a culture of security awareness throughout the organization.

## NIST Seven Steps to Continuity Planning

The NIST Seven Steps to Continuity Planning provide a structured approach for developing effective continuity plans within organizations. These steps ensure comprehensive preparedness for maintaining operations during disruptions.

1. **Initiate the Planning Process**
   - Establish a continuity planning team and define roles.
   - Secure management support and resources.

2. **Conduct a Business Impact Analysis (BIA)**
   - Identify critical functions and assess the potential impact of disruptions.
   - Evaluate the financial and operational impacts of disruptions.
   - For more information, please see [Business Impact Analysis.](/docs/007-Cybersecurity/010-Incident-Response/011-Business-Continuity-Plan.md#business-impact-analysis)

3. **Identify Resource Requirements**
   - Determine the resources needed to support critical functions during a disruption.
   - Assess current resources and identify gaps.

4. **Develop Continuity Strategies**
   - Formulate strategies to maintain operations and recover from disruptions.
   - Create communication plans for internal and external stakeholders.

5. **Develop and Implement a Continuity Plan**
   - Create a documented plan detailing procedures for response and recovery.
   - Distribute the plan to relevant personnel.

6. **Train and Exercise the Plan**
   - Conduct training sessions and exercises to ensure preparedness.
   - Evaluate the effectiveness of training and exercises.

7. **Review and Update the Plan**
   - Regularly review and revise the plan to reflect changes in the organization or environment.
   - Document lessons learned from incidents and exercises.